Did he lose the 2020 election?
Tim, I'm focused on the future.
Did Kamala Harris censor Americans
from speaking
their mind
in the wake of the 2020 Covid situation?
That is that is a damning non-answer.
It's a damning non-answer
for you to not talk about censorship.
Obviously, Donald Trump and I think that
there were problems in 2020.
We've talked about it.
I'm happy to talk about it further.
But you guys attack us for not believing
in democracy, the most sacred
right under the United States.
Democracy is the First Amendment.
You yourself have said there's no
First Amendment right to misinformation.
Kamala Harris wants to use
government and big tech to silence people
from speaking their minds.
That is a threat to democracy
that will long outlive this present
political moment.
I would like Democrats and Republicans
to both reject censorship.
Let's persuade one another.
Let's argue about ideas
and then let's come together afterwards.
You can't yell fire in a crowded theater.
That's that's the test.
That's the Supreme Court test.
Tim, fire in a crowded theater.
You guys wanted to kick people off of
Facebook for saying that toddlers shouldn’t wear masks.
Senator, the governor does have the floor.
That’s not fire in a crowded theater.
That is criticizing
the policies of the government,
which is the right
of every American.
Senator, the governor does have the floor
for one minute to respond to you. Please.
Yeah, but I don't run Facebook.
What I do know is, is
I see a candidate out there who refused.
And now again
and this I'm pretty shocked by this.
He lost the election.
This is not a debate.
If you become vice president,
why should Americans trust that
you will give Donald Trump the advice
he needs to hear,
and not just the advice he wants to hear?
Well, first of all, Margaret,
because I've always been open
and sometimes, of course,
I've disagreed with the president,
but I've also been extremely open
about the fact
that I was wrong about Donald Trump.
I was wrong,
first of all, because
I believed some of the media stories
that turned out to be dishonest
fabrications of his record.
But most importantly, Donald Trump
delivered for the American people
rising wages, rising take home pay,
an economy that worked for normal
Americans, a secure southern border.
A lot of things, frankly, that I didn't
think he'd be able to deliver on.
And yeah, when you screw up,
when you misspeak,
when you get something wrong
and you change your mind,
you ought to be honest
with the American people about it.
You said you were in Hong Kong
during the deadly Tiananmen Square
protests in the spring of 1989,
but Minnesota Public Radio
and other media outlets are reporting that
you actually didn't travel to Asia
until August of that year.
Look, I will be the first to tell you
I have poured my heart into my community.
I've tried to do the best I can,
but I've not been perfect.
And I'm a knucklehead at times,
but it's always been about that.
Many times I will talk a lot.
I will get caught up in the rhetoric.
But being there, the impact it made,
the difference it made in my life.
I learned a lot about China.
I hear the critiques of this.
I would make the case that Donald Trump
should have come on
one of those trips with us.
I guarantee you he wouldn't be,
praising Xi Jinping about Covid.
And I guarantee you he wouldn't
start a trade war that he ends up losing.
So first of all, Margaret,
before we talk about deportations,
we have to stop the bleeding.
We have a historic immigration crisis
because Kamala Harris started
and said that she wanted to undo
all of Donald Trump's border policies.
Kamala Harris was the attorney general
of the largest state,
a border state in California.
She's the only person in this race
who prosecuted transnational gangs
for human
trafficking and drug interventions.
But look, we all want to solve the — I.
Most of us want to solve this.
That's why we had the fairest
and the toughest bill on immigration
that this nation’s seen.
But as soon as that was getting ready to pass
and actually tackle this,
Donald Trump said no.
He told them to vote against it
because it gives him a campaign issue.
It gives him,
what would Donald Trump talk about
if we actually did some of these things?
The only thing that she did
when she became the vice president,
when she became the appointed border
czar, was to undo 94
Donald Trump executive actions
that opened the border.
This problem is leading to massive
problems in the United States of America.
We could come together and solve this
if we didn't let Donald Trump continue
to make it an issue.
And the consequences in Springfield were
the governor had to send
state law enforcement
to escort kindergartners to school.
I believe Senator Vance wants to solve
this, but by standing with Donald Trump
and not working together to find
a solution, it becomes a talking point.
And when it becomes a talking point
like this, we dehumanize and villainize
other human beings.
Now, Governor Waltz
brought up the community of Springfield,
and he's very worried about the things
that I've said in Springfield.
Look, in Springfield, Ohio, and
in communities all across this country.
You've got schools that are overwhelmed.
You've got hospitals that are overwhelmed.
You've got housing
that is totally unaffordable
because we brought in
millions of illegal immigrants to compete
with Americans for scarce homes.
The people that I'm most worried
about in Springfield,
Ohio, are the American citizens
who have had their lives
destroyed by Kamala Harris's open border.
It is a disgrace to him.
And I actually think I agree with you.
I think you want to solve this problem,
but I don't think that Kamala Harris does.
I don't talk about my faith a lot,
but Matthew 25:40 talks
about to the least amongst us,
you do unto me.
I think that's true of most Americans.
They simply want order to it.
This bill does it.
It's funded.
It's supported by the people who do it.
And it lets us keep our dignity
about how we treat other people.
Just to clarify, for our viewers,
Springfield, Ohio,
does have a large number
of Haitian migrants
who have legal status
or temporary protected.
Well., Margaret —
But thank you, Senator.
We have so much to get to.
I think it's important.
But I turn now to the economy.
The rules were that you got a fact check,
and since you're fact
checking me, I think it's important to say
what's actually going on.
So there's an application called the CBP.
One app where you can go on
as an illegal migrant, apply for asylum
or apply for parole
and be granted legal status
at the wave of a Kamala
Harris open border wand.
That is not a person coming in
applying for a green card
and waiting for ten years.
Thank you, Senator.
That is the faciliatation of illegal immigration. Margaret.
Thank you, Senator,
for describing the legal process.
And Kamala Harris opened up that pathway.
Thank you, Senator.
Those laws have been on the books since 1990.
Thank you gentlemen. This
has not been on the books since 1990.
It's something that was created.
Gentlemen, the audience can't hear you
because your mics are cut.
You know,
I grew up in a working class family
in a neighborhood
where I knew a lot of young women
who had unplanned pregnancies
and decided to terminate those pregnancies
because they feel like
they didn't have any other options.
One of them is actually very dear to me.
She felt like if she hadn't
had that abortion,
that it would have destroyed her life
because she was in an abusive
relationship.
And I think that what I take from
that as a Republican who proudly wants
to protect innocent life in this country,
who proudly wants to protect
the vulnerable, is that my party,
we've got to do so much better of a job
at earning the American people's
trust back on this issue,
where they, frankly, just don't trust us.
And I think that's one of the things that
Donald Trump and I are endeavoring to do.
I want us as a Republican Party
to be pro-family
in the fullest sense of the word.
I want us to support fertility treatments.
I want us to make it easier for moms
to afford to have babies.
I want to make it easier
for young families to afford a home
so they can afford a place
to raise that family.
And I think there's so much that we can do
on the public policy
front just to give women more options.
When you listen to Vice President Harris
talk about this subject, can you hear me
talk about it?
You hear us talking exactly the same.
Donald Trump is trying to figure out
how to get the political right of this.
I agree with a lot of what
Senator Vance said about what's happening.
His running mate, though, does not.
And that's the problem.
I got a 17-year-old and
and he witnessed a shooting
at a community center playing volleyball.
Those things don't leave you.
No one's trying to scare monger
and say, we're taking your guns, but
I ask all of you out there, do you want
your schools hardened to look like a fort?
Is that is that what we have to go
when we know there's countries
around the world that their children
aren't practicing these types of drills?
They're being kids.
We owe it to them to get a fix.
Tim, first of all,
I didn't know that your 17 year old
witnessed the shooting,
and I'm sorry about that,
and I appreciate it.
Christ have mercy. It is. It is awful.
We unfortunately have a mental health
crisis in this country that I really do
think that we need to get
to the root causes of,
because I don't think it's
the whole reason why
we have such a bad gun violence problem.
But I do think it's a big piece of it.
Just because you have a mental health
issue doesn't mean you're violent.
And I think what we end up doing
is we start looking for a scapegoat.
Sometimes it just is the guns.
Governor, you say trust the experts.
But those same experts for 40 years said
that if we shipped our manufacturing base
off to China, we'd get cheaper goods.
They lied about that.
They said if we cheap
shipped our industrial base off
to other countries,
to Mexico and elsewhere,
it would make the middle class stronger.
They were wrong about that.
They were wrong about the idea
that if we made America less self-reliant,
less productive in our own nation,
that it would somehow make us better off.
And they were wrong about it.
And for the first time in a generation,
Donald Trump had the wisdom
and the courage to say to that bipartisan
consensus, we're not doing it anymore.
Much of what the senator said right
there, I'm in agreement with him on this.
I watched it happen to I watched it to
my communities, and we talked about that.
We're in agreement
that we bring those home.
The issue is Donald
Trump is talking about it.
Kamala Harris has a record 250,000
more manufacturing jobs
just getting out of the IRA.
But may respond to that. Yes.
So so appreciate that.
So if you notice what Governor Waltz
just did, as he said, first of all, Donald
Trump has to listen to the experts.
And then when he acknowledges
the experts screwed up,
he said, well, Donald Trump
didn't do nearly as good of a job as this.
No, that's a generalization.
So what Tim Walz is doing
and I honestly, Tim,
I think he got a tough job here
because you've got to play whack a mole.
You've got to pretend
that Donald Trump didn't deliver rising
take home pay, which of course he did.
You've got to pretend that Donald Trump
didn't deliver lower inflation, which
of course he did.
And then you simultaneously
got to defend Kamala Harris's
atrocious economic record,
which has made gas, groceries and housing
unaffordable for American citizens.